Hello this is Kiril from for Expo dotcom and welcome to the 30 of tutorial on algorithmic trading for
beginners.
Wow 30 to.
It feels like an anniversary to be honest and I'm really excited.
Thanks a lot for sticking around for 30 tutorials this has been great fun and we're needed there.
This we're ending.
We're nearing the completion of the course and we just got a few more tutorials to go.
So in the previous tutorial we learned how to add a filter to our algorithmic trading system.
And in this tutorial we'll be comparing the performance of our system before we added a filter and after
we added a filter.
So here in front of you on your screen you can see the results of our very first test of the new system
version.
A simple system version 2.0 where the filter has already been added and as you can see the filters work
well there are only cell orders.
The red ones above the white line and they're only by orders being created below the white line which
which means everything is fine.
So now let's go ahead and compare performance before and after and what we will start with is we'll
go back to simple system.
The original one and here I still have the optimization results for simple system.
This is an optimization chart which you've seen before and what it will do is we'll take the first the
most profitable set of parameters set them as inputs and we'll run a test.
So we run that.
And as you can see there's this graph which we've seen before with the rapid increase at the start.
This will go to the report tab will right click and we'll save as report and this will allow us to save
this report to let it compare with what happens after we had the filter.
So we'll call it simple system version 1 Set 1 and we'll save that.
And what this gives us is a file which is automatically open in your browser and it's got the summary
of the test.
Up here it's got a chart and go to all the trades down here which don't really concern us.
What we're looking at is the chart of the summary at this stage.
So that's the very first result.
And as you remember tutorials ago we looked at the fourth result as well so how about we said Have a
look at Darren as well now so will set input parameters run the test.
There's that chart that we're used to report the same report as.
And we'll say simple system version 1 and is going to be set for we'll save that and they go there our
gradually increasing.
So two different sets of parameters with two different results both results are good.
Let's see if we can improve these with a filter.
So in order to do that we're going to go to a simple system version 2.0 and now we're going to go into
expert properties and to start with.
We're going to set the result set the parameters which which yielded this result.
So let's have a look at this lineup here.
It has a list of parameters and I'll just zoom in a bit so you can see better.
So there they are.
The hour was eight take profit 40 plus 60.
So let's set that our 8 take profit 40 plus 60.
So what we've done is we've said exactly the same parameters as in simple system but now we have this
Amay period.
And listen you parameters so let's leave it at 100 for now click OK.
I'll just zoom out of that for now.
It will click OK and now we'll run this test and let's see what happens what has happened.
I will say this as a report and this one will call simple system version 2 set.
Save that and now let's compare them side by side.
So that's the new result and that is the old result in the old result.
Total net profit was eight thousand three hundred twenty seven dollars and the near result the total
net profit is only 4600 $18.
So you can't even tell from the chart that the result is a much better and there's less trade.
And also the total net profit is much lower.
So in this case the filter is not doing a good job at improving the system.
Let's have a look at this set of parameters.
So this is a simple system but the fourth set.
Now we're going to try and prove this we're fulfilled to start our STEM take profit or 100 star plus
40.
Let's set those start our turn take Prof.
So Saro term take profit a hundred plus 40 and moving arge period we'll still leave it at a hundred
at this stage.
Will click OK.
Run the test.
Look at the report save the report as we will say it.
A simple system version version 2 set for save that I'll just zoom out of this report.
And now we can compare compare them side by side so this is what we had.
That's what we have now.
As you can see right away from the chart system the performance has deteriorated and moreover the profit
was seven thousand eight hundred.
Now it's only three thousand four hundred dollars.
So once again we can say that the filter is not doing a good job at improving the system.
However this does not mean a yet that we should discard the filter.
This is because we have always in both cases we've used the value of 100 as the period of the moving
average.
And what does that mean.
That means that we've somehow come up with this value and we think it is the best value and it will
do the job.
But that may not necessarily be the case and we've automated trading.
We can actually check that.
And this is why I actually love algorithmic trading systems.
We can do tests which we would which would take very long periods of time to do by hand.
And I'll show you an example right now.
So now we are looking at this fourth set of 10 140 and we said the M.A. period to 100.
So how about we take a period by itself and we optimize it will click this we'll check the box on the
left and we'll optimize it to see what in reality is the optimum value of this period.
So we'll optimize it starting from 10 with a step of ten and we'll stop at 100.
And this is very similar to what we discussed in testing and optimization to Torro.
But in this case we're only optimizing one parameter of the M8 period.
We're going to leave these as they were click OK.
Now we have to click optimization checkbox here will until Brazil is visual mode.
So optimization is ticked and will click start and as you can see there was only 10 tests that terminal
had to do.
We go into optimization graph you can see these faint dots here and from them you can tell that the
most profitable was the very first iteration.
And if we go to optimization results the most profitable was iteration number one where the M-A period
was equal to 10.
So we'll Right-Click said as in prepared prepare.
We'll just quickly check them.
So 10 140 those haven't changed.
But the M-ID period is now 10.
So now let's have a look at what this will give us.
Can switch a visual mode back on make sure optimization is off.
And now let's look at the report let's say of this report as simple system version to set for.
And now we'll call this one optimized safe.
And now let's see this is what we had originally.
This is what we got with a filter of MFL to have a period of 100.
And this is what we got off to we optimized it.
So now I'm just going to put this one.
We're going to get rid of this one.
The one that's not good.
Now we can compare side by side what we had before and what we have now after.
As you can see the chart has improved the the balance chart has improved and also the Tollner proffer
was sound thousand eight hundred.
Now it is eight thousand seven hundred dollars.
And so that means that our system is actually performing better with the filter.
And also you can notice that the total trades went down from 129 to 113 and that I'll resume in here
a little bit so that the results of the first first test original test and that's the new test.
So you can see as well that the total trials have gone down and that means that our system is doing
the filters doing a good job at cutting out some of those negative traits that have been creating losses
on our account.
And yeah so that means we have essentially been able to improve our trading strategy by adding this
moving average filter and that's that's great news that means we should keep the filter and just use
it in this in this setting.
And that completes our tutorials on creating algorithmic algorithmic trading system.
I hope you've enjoyed this tutorial in the next one we're going to recap on this whole section of putting
everything together.
If you would like to download the source code you can go you can visit me at w w w dot for export dot
com where I post all of the source codes that we create and hope to see at the next tutorial.
Until then happy coding.